---
title: Control Your Mac with Arduino and AppleScript
author: sambrenner
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
path: /notes/?p=425
categories:
  - Physical Computing
---
One of my projects in this year&#8217;s ITP Spring Show was &#8220;Mariah&#8217;s Hand,&#8221; a project that attempts to quantify Mariah Carey&#8217;s hand&#8217;s ability to match the pitch of her voice through sound. As part of my presentation, I wanted to have a slider allow viewers to mix two audio channels while a video played in the background. The solution I came up with was to have a slider send various values to my laptop, where I used AppleScript to adjust the pan in System Preferences. The video had one track running in the left channel and a different one in the right, so adjusting the pan allowed the viewer to mix between the two channels. The one major con was that each channel will be in mono, but that wasn&#8217;t a major concern for me.
Anyway! The setup to have your Arduino talking to your Mac is a simple and powerful (yet underdocumented) process. Being that this was a day-of addition to my project, I was coding it in a hurry, so there are probably many opportunities to improve on it. But it works and it ran for about 12 hours without failing me. So I hope you will find this useful!
## Arduino
I&#8217;m not going to get into wiring up an analog sensor (for more info on that, [here&#8217;s the relevant assignment from ITP&#8217;s PhysComp course][1]). Once you&#8217;re getting values from your sensor, the point is to print them

 [1]: http://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/Labs/AnalogIn
