---
title: Learning to Code
author: sambrenner
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
path: /notes/?p=2640
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
an article about how to teach &#8220;learning to code&#8221; when the focus isn&#8217;t on industry or employment, but rather on expression, creativity, and practical literacy.
&#8220;real world&#8221; (industry) vs everyday literacy
why an alternative is needed
detachment from understanding &#8220;customization&#8221; &#8211;  &#8220;old web&#8221;, NOT about nostalgia or &#8220;weirdness&#8221; but about expression and creativity &#8211; give people an outlet and they will use it
options available
proposal
&nbsp;
At Vidcode, we sometimes hear that students who use our coding platform have trouble conceiving the &#8220;real-world&#8221; applications of what they learn in our creative coding curriculum. While our students (generally middle or high school aged) enjoy doing the work, they struggle to place it into a bigger picture of what &#8220;code&#8221; does. Similarly, I have often heard from students in my undergraduate coding courses that it can be hard to reconcile their understanding of code with their overall studies (in my case, I teach design students), and that it&#8217;s not immediately obvious what to do with their new skills.
In both of these observations, I hesitate to say that this is a failure of the curriculum. For new students of code who are asking &#8220;what next?&#8221; we as teachers have a responsibility to show how the skills that students have gained carry over into other areas, but &#8220;coding&#8221; is a huge field with limitless applications. As a professional coder, you are always learning and you are rarely fully equipped with all the skills you need to solve a problem. For this reason, I find it foolish to design curricula around goals like job readiness
When we design a curriculum around job readiness, we might satisfy the industry, but we do so at the expense of the students.
the common tension is a creative one.
How can we bridge this gap?
Creativity over Mastery
Literacy over Job Readiness
Practical Knowledge over Theory
Expression over Precision
&nbsp;
